[Relay][Docs] Relay Language Reference (#2232)
dmlc/tvm: docs/langref/relay_expr.rst

the definition suffices.

Global Variable
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Global identifiers are prefixed by the `@` sigil, such as "`@global`".
A global identifier always references a globally visibly definition contained in the environment.
Global identifiers must be unique.

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.GlobalVar` for its implementation
and documentation.

Local Variable
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Local identifiers are prefixed by the :code:`%` sigil,
such as ":code:`%local`". A local identifier always references
a function argument or a variable bound in a :code:`let` expression.
A local variable will be scoped to the function where it
appears or the :code:`let` expression where it is bound, respectively.

Suppose the local variable :code:`%a` has been defined in a scope
and within that scope, a :code:`let` expression binding to a variable
:code:`%a` appears. This is permitted, as in most functional languages.
In the scope of the :code:`let` expression (the inner scope),
the name :code:`%a` is "shadowed," meaning all references to
:code:`%a` in the inner scope refer to the later defintion, while
references to :code:`%a` in the outer scope continue to refer to
the previous one.

> (Note that in Relay's implemetnation, each definition of a local variable

Reviewer: s/implemetnation/implementation

Author: Thanks for the catch

    def @id<s: Shape, bt: BaseType>(%x: Tensor[s, bt]) {
        %x
    }

Notice that the return type is omitted and will be inferred.

A function may also be subject to one or more type relations, such as in
the following:

.. code-block:: python

    def @plus(%x, %y) where Broadcast { add(%x, %y) }

In the above definition, the types of `%x` and `%y` and the return type
are subject to the `Broadcast` relation, meaning all three must be tensors
and their shapes follow the elementwise broadcast relation. As with
operators, the definitions of relations are not transparent to Relay
and they are instead implemented externally in either C++ or Python.

As in the case of `Broadcast`, relations are used to express complicated
constraints on types (especially tensor shapes).
All function relations must hold at all call sites;
type checking is thus treated as a constraint-solving problem.
For more detail on type relations and their implementations,
please see the documentation on typing in Relay.

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Function` for the definition and documentation of function nodes.

Operators
=========

An operator is a primitive operation not defined in the Relay

> language. Operators are declaredi n the global operator

Reviewer: s/declaredi n/ declared in

based on the value of previously executed expressions.

Call
~~~~

Expressions with function types in Relay are "callable,"
meaning that they can be invoked via a function call. These consist of
any expression that evaluates to a closure (i.e., function expressions
or global functions) and Relay operators.

When a closure is called, the body is evaluated in the closure's stored
environment (i.e., using the stored values for free variables) with
local variable bindings added for each argument; the final value
obtained by evaluating the body is the call's return value.
In the case of operators, the implementation is opaque to Relay,
so the result is left up to the registered TVM implementation.

For example, we can call the previously defined `%fact` because it
has a function type:

.. code-block:: python

   %fact(10)

A type-polymorphic function can also include type arguments at a call
site. The type arguments are substituted for type parameters when
type checking.

Note that all type relations in the function type must hold at each
call site. Because relations are checked at call sites, this means that
the relations are checked against the types of the particular arguments

> at that call site, so this is also allows for a form of polymorphism.

Reviewer: s/is//

====================
Expressions in Relay
====================

The Relay IR is a pure, expression-oriented language with distinct
dataflow and control flow language fragments.
The dataflow fragments of a program (i.e., those without

> calls to recursive functions or branching) can be

Author: Good observation. I meant to say "recursive calls," but I think "call to a recursive function" is also correct, as you can't express the recursive function itself as a subgraph

viewed as a traditional computation graph when writing and
expressing transformations.

The below sections describe the different expressions in Relay
as well as give details of their semantics.

Variables
=========

> Relay allows for local and global variables. Our design is based on

Reviewer 2: Inspired by LLVM, Relay explicitly distinguishes between local and global variables both in the AST and in the text format. In the text format, global and local variables are distinguished by prefixes, or _sigils_. Global variables are prefixed with `@` and local variables with `%`. This explicit distinction makes certain operations easier. For example inlining a global definition requires no analysis: simply inlining the definition suffices.

Reviewer 2: meta comment: the example is confusing. It's not clear why global and local variables should have different inlining rules.

Author: Local vars have scope considerations

that of LLVM, which differentiates between identifier types; a writer of
optimizations can thus determine what a variable references
simply by knowing the kind of identifier.

Global variables are written with `@`, local variables are written
with `%`, and variables written without a sigil correspond to operator
names.

The distinction between global and local identifiers
makes certain kinds of transformation easier. For example,
inlining a global definition requires no analysis: simply inlining
the definition suffices.

Global Variable
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Global identifiers are prefixed by the `@` sigil, such as "`@global`".

Reviewer 2: should these use `code:`?

Author: I don't know but it can't hurt.

A global identifier always references a globally visibly definition contained in the environment.
Global identifiers must be unique.

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.GlobalVar` for its implementation
and documentation.

Local Variable
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Local identifiers are prefixed by the :code:`%` sigil,
such as ":code:`%local`". A local identifier always references
a function argument or a variable bound in a :code:`let` expression.

> A local variable will be scoped to the function where it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
, and will be scoped to the function where it
```

appears or the :code:`let` expression where it is bound, respectively.

> Suppose the local variable :code:`%a` has been defined in a scope

Reviewer 2: I think an annotated text format example would be good here.

Author: I added an example, which I hope illustrates the point

:code:`%a` appears. This is permitted, as in most functional languages.
In the scope of the :code:`let` expression (the inner scope),
the name :code:`%a` is "shadowed," meaning all references to
:code:`%a` in the inner scope refer to the later defintion, while
references to :code:`%a` in the outer scope continue to refer to
the previous one.

(Note that in Relay's implemetnation, each definition of a local variable
creates a new :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Var`, so a shadowed local variable,
despite having the same name as one in an outer scope, will be a different
object. This allows for comparing local variables by pointer identity with the
knowledge that the same local variable object corresponds to a different binding site.)

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Var` for its implementation
and documentation.

Global Functions
================

A function definition consists of a name, arguments, return type,
type parameters, and any applicable type relations.
A function's return type and parameter types may be omitted;
Relay will attempt to infer the most general types where types
are omitted.

Functions in Relay act similarly to procedures or functions in

> other programming language and serve to generalize the concept

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
other programming languages and serve to generalize the concept
```

of a named subgraph.

> Functions defined in the manner described in this subsection are

Reviewer 2: are of -> have

of global scope; anonymous functions will be discussed later, though
their mechanics are nearly identical. Note that global functions may be
recursive; that is, within the function's body, the function's
identifier refers back to the function unless it is shadowed in a :code:`let`
expression.

A definition minimally consists of an identifier :code:`@id`, an empty set of
parameters, and a body expression (:py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Expr`)
contained by curly braces.

.. code-block:: python

    def @id() { body }

A definition may contain any number of parameters. For example, a
simple function that invokes the `add` operator:

.. code-block:: python

    def @plus(%x, %y) { add(%x, %y) }

Notice that within the function's body, the parameters are local
variables, just like those bound in a :code:`let` expression.

One may also annotate explicit types on definitions.
For example, we can restrict the above definition to only work
on certain types:

.. code-block:: python

>     def @plus(%x: Tensor<(10, 10), float32>, %y: Tensor<(10, 10), float32>)

Reviewer 3: syntax need to be updated to the new proposed syntax

Author: Which part needs to be changed? I see that the examples @joshpoll posted use square brackets on tensor types and `fn` instead of `fun` for function literals. I will change those, but are there other inconsistencies?

Author: Ah and no brackets around if-else blocks

Reviewer 3: I recalled it was ```Tensor[(10, 10), float32]```?

Reviewer 3: sorry i was commenting on stale content, but yes we need brackets around if-else

Author: I'll put the brackets back then (only two places). The actual ANTLR AST for if-else exprs doesn't appear to require brackets, so we'll have to sync those specs

Reviewer 2: The ANTLR grammar _does_ require brackets. It uses a body expression. `test_ir_parser.py` contains examples for each language construct.

Reviewer 2: this example is fine except for the tensor types

               -> Tensor<(10, 10), float32> {
        add(%x, %y)
    }

A function parameter is just a local variable (:py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.LocalVar`) optionally
annotated with a type. Parameters are written as :code:`%x : T`.

> When the type information is omitted, we will attempt to infer the most general type

Reviewer 2: These two paragraphs need some love. The first repeats itself. More importantly, the two paragraphs don't agree on the audience's background. The first paragraph explains generalization and type inference. The second paragraph assumes the reader is familiar with type polymorphism and type parameters.

Author: I took a stab at making the description more explicit; please review

Reviewer 2: lgtm

for the users. This property is known as generalization: for a definition without
explicit annotations, we will attempt to assign the most general type. When the
return type is omitted, we will infer the return type based on the function body.

We can directly construct type-polymorphic definitions by writing down
a set of type parameters for a definition. For example, one can define a
polymorphic identity function for tensors as follows:

.. code-block:: python

>     def @id<s: Shape, bt: BaseType>(%x: Tensor<s, bt>) {

Reviewer 2: this syntax is currently not supported

        %x
    }

Notice that the return type is omitted and will be inferred.

A function may also be subject to one or more type relations, such as in
the following:

.. code-block:: python

>     def @plus(%x, %y) where Broadcast { add(%x, %y) }

Reviewer 2: where syntax is currently unsupported

In the above definition, the types of `%x` and `%y` and the return type
are subject to the `Broadcast` relation, meaning all three must be tensors
and their shapes follow the elementwise broadcast relation. As with
operators, the definitions of relations are not transparent to Relay
and they are instead implemented externally in either C++ or Python.

As in the case of `Broadcast`, relations are used to express complicated
constraints on types (especially tensor shapes).
All function relations must hold at all call sites;
type checking is thus treated as a constraint-solving problem.
For more detail on type relations and their implementations,
please see the documentation on typing in Relay.

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Function` for the definition and documentation of function nodes.

Operators
=========

An operator is a primitive operation not defined in the Relay
language. Operators are declaredi n the global operator
registry in C++. Many common operators are backed by TVM's
Tensor Operator Inventory (`TOPI <https://github.com/dmlc/tvm/tree/master/topi>`__).

> but registered in the global environment in either Python

Reviewer 4: This paragraph seems disconnected with the previous sentence. Reconnect?

Author: Thanks, will correct it

when pretty-printing Relay programs.
Operators are explicitly contained in the program and are uniquely
identifiable by pointer.

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.op.Op` for the definition and documentation
of operator nodes, demonstrating the infrastructure for registering
operator metadata. The other files in :py:class:`~tvm.relay.op` give
handles for generating a call to various pre-registered operators.

Dataflow Fragment
=================

This subsection covers the set of Relay expressions that do not involve
control flow. That is, any portion of a program comprised only of these
expressions corresponds to a pure computation graph without control flow.
Note that global and local variables are also part of the dataflow fragment.

Constants
~~~~~~~~~

This node represents a constant tensor value
(see :py:mod:`~tvm.relay.Value` for more details).
The constants are represented as :py:class:`~tvm.NDArray`,
allowing Relay to utilize TVM operators for constant evaluation.

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Constant` for its definition and documentation.

Tuple
~~~~~

The tuple node builds a finite (that is, of statically known size) sequence of heterogeneous data. 

> These tuples match Python's closely. Their fixed length allows for efficient projection of their

Reviewer 4: In this sense, is `Tuple` immutable as in Python?

Author: All Relay values are immutable, so that is true

                -> Tensor<(10, 10), float32> { add(%x, %y) }

Note that function expressions evaluate to a closure. Closures
are values that are represented as a pair of a local environment
(storing the values for all variables defined outside the scope
of the function's body) and the function itself.

For example, in the below example, :code:`%z` will evaluate to a tensor
of zero values because the closure for :code:`%f` stores the value of
:code:`%x` at the pointer where :code:`%f` was defined.

.. code-block::

    let %g = fun () {
      let %x = Constant(0, (10, 10), float32);
      # x is a free variable in the below function
      fun (%y) { multiply(%y, %x) }
    };
    # the %x in %g's body is not in scope anymore
    # %f is a closure where %x maps to Constant(0, (10, 10), float32)
    let %f = %g();
    let %x = Constant(1, (10, 10), float32);
    let %z = %f(%x)

A recursive function expression can be defined using a :code:`let` binding,
as here:

.. code-block:: python

    let %fact = fun (%x : Tensor<(10, 10), float32>) -> Tensor<(10, 10), float32> {
        if (equal(%x, Constant(1, (10, 10), float32)) {
            Constant(0, (10, 10), float32)

>         } else {

Reviewer 3: update syntax

Author: Will do

Reviewer 2: ```
let %fact = fn (%x : Tensor[(10, 10), float32]) -> Tensor[(10, 10), float32] {
    if (%x == relay.ones((10, 10), float32) {
        relay.zeros((10, 10), float32)
    } else {
        %x * %fact(%x - relay.ones((10, 10), float32))
    }
};
%fact(relay.broadcast_to(10, (10, 10)))
```

====================
Expressions in Relay
====================

The Relay IR is a pure, expression-oriented language with distinct
dataflow and control flow language fragments.
The dataflow fragments of a program (i.e., those without
calls to recursive functions or branching) can be considered

> as a more traditional computation graph when writing and

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
`can be viewed as a traditional computation graph
```

Author: Incorporated in e7c5a04

expressing transformations.

The below sections describe the different expressions in Relay
as well as give details of their semantics.

Variables
=========

Relay allows for local and global variables. Our design is based on
that of LLVM, which differentiates between identifier types; a writer of

> optimizations can thus determine a lot of information about what a

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
optimizations can thus determine what a
```

Author: Incorporated in e7c5a04

variable references simply by knowing the kind of identifier.

Global variables are written with `@`, local variables are written
with `%`, and variables written without a sigil correspond to operator
names.

The distinction between global and local identifiers
makes certain kinds of transformation easier. For example,
inlining a global definition requires no analysis: simply inlining

> the definitions suffices.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
the definition suffices.
```

Global Variable
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Global identifiers are prefixed by the `@` sigil, such as "`@global`".

> A global identifier always references a globally visibly definition contained in the environment. The names of global identifiers must be unique.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
A global identifier always references a globally visibly definition contained in the module. Global identifiers must be unique.
```

Author: Incorporated in e7c5a04

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.GlobalVar` for its implementation
and documentation.

Local Variable
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Local identifiers are prefixed by the :code:`%` sigil,
such as ":code:`%local`". A local identifier always references
a function argument or a variable bound in a `let` expression.
A local variable will be scoped to the function where it
appears or the `let` expression where it is bound, respectively.

Suppose the local variable :code:`%a` has been defined in a scope

> and within that scope, a `let` expression binding to a variable

Reviewer 5: Missing code

Author: Incorporated in e7c5a04

:code:`%a` appears. This is permitted, as in most functional languages.
In the scope of the `let` expression (the inner scope),
the name :code:`%a` is "shadowed," meaning all references to
:code:`%a` in the inner scope refer to the later defintion, while
references to :code:`%a` in the outer scope continue to refer to
the previous one.

(Note that in Relay's implemetnation, each definition of a local variable
creates a new :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Var`, so a shadowed local variable,
despite having the same name as one in an outer scope, will be a different
object. This allows for comparing local variables by pointer identity with the
knowledge that the same local variable object corresponds to a different binding site.)

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Var` for its implementation
and documentation.

Global Functions
================

A function is no different from a procedure or function in a
typical programming language and generalizes the concept of a

> named subgraph.

Reviewer 5: Awk paragraph break

Author: I reordered this in e7c5a04

A function definition consists of a name, arguments, return type,
type parameters, and any applicable type relations.

> A function's return type and the types of parameters may be omitted;

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
A function's return type and parameters types may be omitted;
```

Author: Incorporated in e7c5a04

Relay will attempt to infer the most general types where types
are omitted.

Functions defined in the manner described in this subsection are
of global scope; anonymous functions will be discussed later, though

> their mechanics are nearly identical. Note that global functions may be

Reviewer 5: Shadowing is tricky here, they won't actually be shadowed unless you are using the parser, and we should check with @joshpoll about that.

Reviewer 2: Global functions can't be defined with a let expression, so they can't be shadowed this way.

Author: Oh I missed this point, I should remove the remark about shadowing the identifier

recursive; that is, within the function's body, the function's
identifier refers back to the function unless it is shadowed in a `let`
expression.

A definition minimally consists of an identifier :code:`@id`, an empty set of
parameters, and a body expression (:py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Expr`)
contained by curly braces.

.. code-block:: python

    def @id() { body }

A definition may contain any number of parameters. For example, a
simple function that invokes the `add` operator:

.. code-block:: python

    def @plus(%x, %y) { add(%x, %y) }

Notice that within the function's body, the parameters are local
variables, just like those bound in a `let` expression.

> It is also possible for us to annotate explicit types on definitions.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
One may also annotate explicit types on definitions.
```

Author: Incorporated in e7c5a04

For example, we can restrict the above definition to only work
on certain types:

.. code-block:: python

>     def @add(%x: Tensor<Float, (10, 10)>, %y: Tensor<Float, (10, 10)>) -> Tensor<Float, (10, 10)> {

Reviewer 5: We should change the code snippets to match text format, shapes now come first. @joshpoll

Author: I will get to this soon

Author: Addressed in 1aabbc5

        %x + %y
    }

> A parameter is just a pairing of a :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.LocalVar` and optional :py:class:`~tvm.relay.ty.Type`. They represent

Reviewer 5: This is now just a local variable, local variables have type fields directly annotated on them, see `expr.cc`

Author: Rewritten in e7c5a04

the formal parameters of functions and definitions and are written as :code:`%x : T`.

> Parameters may only appear in function literals and definitions

Reviewer 5: We should remove this sentence.

Author: Done in e7c5a04

When the type information is omitted, we will attempt to infer the most general type
for the users. This property is known as generalization: for a definition without
explicit annotations, we will attempt to assign the most general type. When the
return type is omitted, we will infer the return type based on the text of the
program.

We can directly construct type-polymorphic definitions by writing down
a set of type parameters for a definition. For example, one can define a
polymorphic identity function for tensors as follows:

.. code-block:: python
    def @id<s: Shape, bt: BaseType>(%x: Tensor<bt, s>) {
        %x
    }

Notice that the return type is omitted and will be inferred.

.. *Note: polymorphism is not yet implemented.*

A function may also be subject to one or more type relations, such as in
the following:

.. code-block:: python

    def @plus(%x, %y) where Broadcast { add(%x, %y) }

In the above definition, the types of `%x` and `%y` and the return type
are subject to the `Broadcast` relation, meaning all three must be tensors
and their shapes follow the elementwise broadcast relation. As with
operators, the definitions of relations are not transparent to Relay

> and they are instead implemented externally.

Reviewer 5: I think you should be specific here, i.e C++ or Python

Author: Done in e7c5a04

As in the case of `Broadcast`, relations are used to express complicated
constraints on types (especially tensor shapes).
All function relations must hold at all call sites;
type checking is thus treated as a constraint-solving problem.
For more detail on type relations and their implementations,
please see the documentation on typing in Relay.

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Function` for the definition and documentation of function nodes.

Operators
=========

> An operator is a primitive operation that is not defined in the Relay

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
An operator is a primitive operation not defined in the Relay
```

Author: Done in e7c5a04

> language but is registered in the global environment in either Python

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
operators are declared in the global operator registry in C++. Many common operators are backed by TVM's Tensor Operator Inventory (provide link here).
```

Author: Done in e7c5a04

or C++. Implementations of operators are typically backed by TVM's TOPI.

An operator requires a user to provide an implementation
of the operator, its type, and any other desired metadata.

> The operator registry is simply a column-based store where

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The operator registry is a column-based store where
```

Author: Done in e7c5a04

operators are keys, so any metadata (which might be referenced
by optimization passes) may be registered as a new column.

From the perspective of Relay's type system, an operator is a function,
so operators may be called like any other function and have function
types. In particular, operator types are registered using a single
type relation (see the above subsection), typically a relation
specialized to that operator. For example, the :code:`add` operator
is registered with the `Broadcast` relation, indicating that the
arguments of :code:`add` must be tensors and that the return type
is a tensor whose shape depends on those of its arguments.

Operators are rendered without a sigil (e.g :code:`add`, :code:`subtract`)
when pretty-printing Relay programs.
Operators are explicitly contained in the program and are uniquely

> identifiable by pointer during a run of the Relay compiler.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
identifiable by pointer.
```

Author: Done in e7c5a04

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.op.Op` for the definition and documentation
of operator nodes, demonstrating the infrastructure for registering
operator metadata. The other files in :py:class:`~tvm.relay.op` give

> handles for generating a call to various pre-registered operators.

Reviewer 5: Might be good to cross-ref the tutorial

Author: Will get to this

Author: Addressed in 1aabbc5

Dataflow Fragment
=================

This subsection covers the set of Relay expressions that do not involve
control flow. That is, any portion of a program comprised only of these
expressions corresponds to a pure computation graph without control flow.
Note that global and local variables are also part of the dataflow fragment.

Constants
~~~~~~~~~

This node represents a constant tensor value

> (see :py:mod:~tvm.relay.Value for more details).

Reviewer 5: The reference is wrong here.

The constants are represented as :py:class:`~tvm.NDArray`,
allowing Relay to utilize TVM operators for constant evaluation.

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Constant` for its definition and documentation.

Tuple
~~~~~

The tuple node builds a finite (that is, of statically known size) sequence of heterogeneous data. 
These tuples match Python's closely. Their fixed length allows for efficient projection of their
members.

.. code-block:: python

    (a, b, c) : Tuple<A, B, C>

    (add(add(a, b), c), d) : Tuple<Tensor<float32, (10, 10)>, Tensor<float32, (100, 100)>>

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Tuple` for its definition and documentation.

Tuple Projection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A tuple must be indexed by an integer constant in order to extract a
particular member of the tuple. Projections are 0-indexed.

For example, the below projection evaluates to :code:`b`:

.. code-block:: python

   (a, b, c).1

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.TupleGetItem` for its definition and documentation.

Function Expressions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Functions are first class in Relay and can be used in any expression
position. Function expressions are the same as global functions and

> use nearly the same syntax (besides not including a name), but do

Reviewer 5: condense this bit at the end.

Author: Done in 3d30695

not have a globally unique name.

.. code-block:: python

    fun (%x : Tensor<float32, (10, 10)>, y: Tensor<float32, (10, 10)>
                -> Tensor<float32, (10, 10)> { add(%x, %y) }

> Note that function expressions evaluate to closure values. Closures

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Note that function expressions evaluate to a closure.```

Author: Done in e7c5a04

> store values for all free variables in their body. A free variable

Reviewer 5: Closures are values which are represented as a pair of a local environment, containing the variables defined outside the scope of the function's body and the function itself.

Author: Rewritten in e7c5a04

of zero values because the closure for :code:`%f` stores the value of
:code:`%x` at the pointer where :code:`%f` was defined.

.. code-block::

    let %g = fun () {
      let %x = Constant(0, float32, (10, 10));
      # x is a free variable in the below function
      fun (%y) { multiply(%y, %x) }
    };
    # the %x in %g's body is not in scope anymore
    # %f is a closure where %x maps to Constant(0, float32, (10, 10))
    let %f = %g();
    let %x = Constant(1, float32, (10, 10));
    let %z = %f(%x)

A recursive function expression can be defined using a `let` binding,
as here:

.. code-block:: python

    let %fact = fun (%x : Tensor<float32, (10, 10)>) -> Tensor<float32, (10, 10)> {
        if (equal(%x, Constant(1, float32, (10, 10))) {
            Constant(0, float32, (10, 10))
        } else {
            multiply(%x,  %fact(subtract(%x, Constant(1, float32, (10, 10))))
        }
    };
    %fact(10)

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Function` for its definition and documentation.

Let Binding
~~~~~~~~~~~

A `let` binding is an immutable local variable binding,
allowing the user to bind an expression to a name.

A `let` binding contains a local variable,

> an optional type annotation, a value, and a body expression

Reviewer 5: We should probably comment on explicit vs. implicit sharing here @MarisaKirisame

For example, inlining a global definition requires no analysis: simply
substituting the definition suffices.

Global Variable
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Global identifiers are prefixed by the :code:`@` sigil, such as ":code:`@global`".
A global identifier always references a globally visible definition contained in the environment.
Global identifiers must be unique.

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.GlobalVar` for its implementation
and documentation.

Local Variable
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Local identifiers are prefixed by the :code:`%` sigil,
such as ":code:`%local`". A local identifier always references
a function argument or a variable bound in a :code:`let` expression,
and will be scoped to the function where it appears or the :code:`let`
expression where it is bound, respectively.

In the below code segment, notice that :code:`%a` is defined twice. This is
permitted, as in most functional languages; in the scope of the second
:code:`let` expression, the name :code:`%a` is "shadowed," meaning all
references to :code:`%a` in the inner scope refer to the later defintion, while
references to :code:`%a` in the outer scope continue to refer to
the first one.

.. code-block:: python

>   def @f(%a) {

Reviewer 2: What about

```
let %a = 1;
let %b = 2 * %a;  // %b = 2
let %a = %a + %a; // %a = 2. %a is shadowed
%a + %b           // has value 2 + 2 = 4
```

Author: Yeah, I was thinking about having comments in the code example. That would be good

    let %b = %a;
    let %a = add(%a, %a);
    multiply(%a, %b)
  }

(Note that in Relay's implementation, each definition of a local variable
creates a new :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Var`, so a shadowed local variable,
despite having the same name as one in an outer scope, will be a different
object. This allows for comparing local variables by pointer identity with the
knowledge that the same local variable object corresponds to a different binding site.)

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Var` for its implementation
and documentation.

> Global Functions

Reviewer 2: structural comment: Why do we have a separate section for Global Functions when the AST has no such explicit construct? I understand why we need to discuss the text format, since the syntax is different, but much of this explanation applies more specifically to the Function node than to global functions. Type relations perhaps need to remain in this section, too.

Author: Good question. It was in the first draft so I kept it as it was. A possible reason to keep it as a separate section is that a Relay program can be thought of as a collection of global functions. Not too much of it is specific to global functions, you're right; I will make sure the remark about local functions doesn't repeat anything from this section.

explicit annotations, we will attempt to assign the most general type to the
parameters and return type based on the function body and call sites.

.. *Note: type parameter syntax is not yet supported in the text format.*

A function may also be given a set of type parameters, which can be
substituted for specific types at call sites. Functions with
type parameters are *type polymorphic*; their return type or the types
of arguments they will accept can vary based on the type arguments
given at call sites.

For example, one can define a polymorphic identity function for
any Relay type as follows:

.. code-block:: python
    def @id<t: Type>(%x : t) -> t {
        %x
    }

The below definition is also polymorphic, but restricts its
arguments to tensor types:

.. code-block:: python
    def @id<s: Shape, bt: BaseType>(%x: Tensor[s, bt]) {
        %x
    }

Notice that the return type is omitted and will be inferred.

.. *Note: :code:`where` syntax is not yet supported in the text format.*

A function may also be subject to one or more type relations, such as in
the following:

.. code-block:: python

    def @plus(%x, %y) where Broadcast { add(%x, %y) }

> In the above definition, the types of `%x` and `%y` and the return type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the above definition, the types of :code:`%x` and :code:`%y` and the return type
```

> are subject to the `Broadcast` relation, meaning all three must be tensors

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
are subject to the :code:`Broadcast` relation, meaning all three must be tensors
```

and their shapes follow the elementwise broadcast relation. As with
operators, the definitions of relations are not transparent to Relay
and they are instead implemented externally in either C++ or Python.

> As in the case of `Broadcast`, relations are used to express complicated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As in the case of :code:`Broadcast`, relations are used to express complicated
```

constraints on types (especially tensor shapes).
All function relations must hold at all call sites;
type checking is thus treated as a constraint-solving problem.
For more detail on type relations and their implementations,
please see the documentation on typing in Relay.

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Function` for the definition and documentation of function nodes.

Operators
=========

> An operator is a primitive operation not defined in the Relay

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An operator is a primitive operation, such as :code:`add` or :code:`conv2d`, not defined in the Relay
```

language. Operators are declared in the global operator
registry in C++. Many common operators are backed by TVM's
Tensor Operator Inventory (`TOPI <https://github.com/dmlc/tvm/tree/master/topi>`__).

> An operator requires a user to provide an implementation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To register an operator a user must provide an implementation
```

of the operator, its type, and any other desired metadata.
The operator registry is a column-based store where
operators are keys, so any metadata (which might be referenced
by optimization passes) may be registered as a new column.

From the perspective of Relay's type system, an operator is a function,
so operators may be called like any other function and have function
types. In particular, operator types are registered using a single
type relation (see the above subsection), typically a relation
specialized to that operator. For example, the :code:`add` operator

> is registered with the `Broadcast` relation, indicating that the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is registered with the :code:`Broadcast` relation, indicating that the
```

arguments of :code:`add` must be tensors and that the return type
is a tensor whose shape depends on those of its arguments.

Operators are rendered without a sigil (e.g :code:`add`, :code:`subtract`)
when pretty-printing Relay programs.
Operators are explicitly contained in the program and are uniquely
identifiable by pointer.

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.op.Op` for the definition and documentation
of operator nodes, demonstrating the infrastructure for registering
operator metadata. The other files in :py:class:`~tvm.relay.op` give
handles for generating a call to various pre-registered operators.
The `tutorial on adding operators to Relay`__ shows how to add further
operators into the language.

__ `Adding an Operator to Relay`_

Dataflow Fragment
=================

This subsection covers the set of Relay expressions that do not involve
control flow. That is, any portion of a program comprised only of these
expressions corresponds to a pure computation graph without control flow.

> Note that global and local variables are also part of the dataflow fragment.

Author: Yes, I'll add it

Constants
~~~~~~~~~

> This node represents a constant tensor value

Reviewer 2: consider explaining rank 0 tensors and booleans

Author: Will do

A tuple must be indexed by an integer constant in order to extract a
particular member of the tuple. Projections are 0-indexed.

For example, the below projection evaluates to :code:`b`:

.. code-block:: python

   (a, b, c).1

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.TupleGetItem` for its definition and documentation.

Function Expressions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Functions are first class in Relay and can be used in any expression
position. Function expressions are the same as global functions and
use nearly the same syntax, but do not have a globally unique name.

.. code-block:: python

    fn (%x : Tensor[(10, 10), float32], y: Tensor[(10, 10), float32]
                -> Tensor[(10, 10), float32] { add(%x, %y) }

Note that function expressions evaluate to a closure. Closures
are values that are represented as a pair of a local environment
(storing the values for all variables defined outside the scope
of the function's body) and the function itself.

For example, in the below example, :code:`%z` will evaluate to a tensor
of zero values because the closure for :code:`%f` stores the value of
:code:`%x` at the pointer where :code:`%f` was defined.

.. code-block::

    let %g = fn () {

>       let %x = Constant(0, (10, 10), float32);

Author: That's what I assumed but perhaps @jroesch might have other thoughts.

Let Binding
~~~~~~~~~~~

A :code:`let` binding is an immutable local variable binding,
allowing the user to bind an expression to a name.

A :code:`let` binding contains a local variable,
an optional type annotation, a value, and a body expression
that may reference the bound identifier. If a type annotation
on the bound variable is omitted, Relay attempts to infer the
most general type permitted for the variable.

The bound variable in a :code:`let` expression is scoped to the let
expression's body. Note that the bound variable can only be
recursively referenced in the value in the case of a function
expression, as in the above subsection.

The value of a :code:`let` binding is the value of the final expression
after evaluating the bindings it depends on. For example, in the
following example the entire expression evaluates to a tensor
of shape (10, 10) where all elements are 2:

.. code-block:: python

   let %x : Tensor[(10, 10), float32] = Constant(1, (10, 10), float32);
   add(%x, %x)

A sequence of :code:`let` bindings can be considered as a dataflow graph,
where the bindings are a series of sub-graphs connected
by bound variables. Since these binding sequences are

> pure, they can be evaluated in any order according to the program

Author: I'm hesitant to mention parallel execution unless we are actually making use of it as it is

> pure, they can be evaluated in any order according to the program

Reviewer 2: ok I think it's fine to remove the parallel part

> pure, they can be evaluated in any order according to the program

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pure, a pair of bindings where neither depends on the other can be safely reordered.
```

dataflow. For example, the first and second :code:`let` bindings below
may be evaluated in either order because neither has a dataflow
dependency on the other:

.. code-block:: python

   let %x = add(%a, %b);
   let %y = add(%c, %d);
   multiply(%x, %y)

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Let` for its definition and documentation.

Graph Bindings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A :code:`let` binding creates a named variable that is bound to the given value
and scoped to the subsequent expression. By contrast, a graph binding allows for
explicitly constructing dataflow graphs in a Relay program by binding an expression
(graph node) directly to a temporary variable, which is not scoped. Each reference
to the variable corresponds to an edge in the dataflow graph. This has the
semantics of substituting the expression wherever the variable appears, even though
the graph node will only be evaluated once by the compiled program.

These bindings allow for a style of programming that corresponds to that already

> employed by NNVM and other dataflow graph-based input formats. The fact that the variables

Author: Not sure whether this hyphen would be necessary. "Dataflow graph" is a noun phrase.

> employed by NNVM and other dataflow graph-based input formats. The fact that the variables

Reviewer 2: This is a very minor point and I can't even seem to find a style guide entry on it (there's probably one somewhere). I'm fine with picking one way and being consistent throughout the document. My only gripe is that my mind parses this as "dataflow, graph-based input", but I'll defer to your judgement.

> employed by NNVM and other dataflow graph-based input formats. The fact that the variables

Author: I can't find a good reference for it either. I do not claim any particular expertise, but I have seen the (unhyphenated noun phrase)-(adjective) construction before.

are not scoped offers some flexibility in evaluation order compared to :code:`let`
bindings, though this can also introduce some ambiguity in programs (the
`developer introduction to the Relay IR`__ includes more detailed discussion
of this nuance).

__ `Introduction to Relay IR`_

> In Relay's text format, a graph binding can be written as below (note the lack of a

Author: I'll add a note

:code:`let` keyword and a semicolon):

.. code-block:: python

   %1 = add(%a, %b)
   %2 = add(%1, %1)
   multiply(%2, %2)

Graph bindings are not represented as an AST node in Relay, but rather as meta-variables set
to reference AST nodes. For example, a program like the above could be constructed in Relay's
Python front-end by setting *Python variables* equal to the corresponding Relay AST node and
using the variables repeatedly, as below (a C++ program using the corresponding API bindings
could accomplish the same thing):

.. code-block:: python

   sum1 = relay.add(a, b)
   sum2 = relay.add(sum1, sum1)
   relay.multiply(sum2, sum2)

For development purposes and to enable certain optimizations, Relay includes passes to
convert between dataflow graphs defined using graph bindings and programs with :code:`let`
bindings in A-normal form, employed by many compiler optimizations from the functional

> programming community (see `"The Essence of Compiling with Continuations" by

Author: Noted

Flanagan *et al*<https://slang.soe.ucsc.edu/cormac/papers/pldi93.pdf>`__ for a discussion
of the A-normal form).

=======================
Control Flow Expression
=======================

Control flow expressions allow the network topology to change
based on the value of previously executed expressions.

> Call

Author: A function is a named subgraph, so a call would effectively substitute that subgraph in. If a call is to a recursive function, it can't be substituted as a subgraph, so those calls would not be pure dataflow.

> Call

Author: I think it would be best to discuss calls separately from the dataflow vs control fragments entirely, I'll move it to a different subsection.

~~~~

Expressions with function types in Relay are "callable,"
meaning that they can be invoked via a function call. These consist of
any expression that evaluates to a closure (i.e., function expressions
or global functions) and Relay operators.

When a closure is called, the body is evaluated in the closure's stored
environment (i.e., using the stored values for free variables) with
local variable bindings added for each argument; the final value
obtained by evaluating the body is the call's return value.
In the case of operators, the implementation is opaque to Relay,
so the result is left up to the registered TVM implementation.

For example, we can call the previously defined `%fact` because it
has a function type:

.. code-block:: python

   %fact(10)

A type-polymorphic function can also include type arguments at a call
site. The type arguments are substituted for type parameters when
type checking.

Note that all type relations in the function type must hold at each
call site. Because relations are checked at call sites, this means that

> the relations are checked against the types of the particular arguments

Author: The relation is checked against the specific types of the arguments to the call. If the call's arguments have types `T_1`, ..., `T_n`, it will be checked if the relation holds on types `T_1`, ..., `T_n`. I'll add an example, as you suggest, to illustrate it.

> at that call site, so this also allows for a form of polymorphism.

Author: There are many valid assignments of types. It differs in that a relation is used to determine which assignments are valid, as opposed to explicit polymorphism, where there are variables representing the types and a call would have to assign a specific type for each variable.

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Call` for its definition and documentation.

If-Then-Else
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Relay has a simple if-then-else expression that allows programs to branch
on a single value of type :code:`bool`, i.e., a zero-rank
tensor of booleans (:code:`Tensor[(), bool]`).

.. code-block:: python

    if (equal(%t, %u)) {
        %t
    } else {
        %u
    }

Since if-then-else branches are expressions, they may appear inline
wherever any other expression may be expected, like invocations of
the ternary operator in C-like languages. The if-then-else expression
evaluates to the value of the "then" branch if the condition value is
`True` and evaluates to the value of the "else" branch otherwise.

> See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.If` for its definition and documentation.

Reviewer 2: Should there be a discussion of TempExpr?

Author: TempExpr are a purely internal implementation detail, so I don't know if they need to be in the language reference either.

:code:`let` expression, the name :code:`%a` is "shadowed," meaning all
references to :code:`%a` in the inner scope refer to the later defintion, while
references to :code:`%a` in the outer scope continue to refer to
the first one.

.. code-block:: python
let %a = 1;
let %b = 2 * %a;  // %b = 2
let %a = %a + %a; // %a = 2. %a is shadowed
%a + %b           // has value 2 + 2 = 4

(Note that in Relay's implementation, each definition of a local variable
creates a new :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Var`, so a shadowed local variable,
despite having the same name as one in an outer scope, will be a different
object. This allows for comparing local variables by pointer identity with the
knowledge that the same local variable object corresponds to a different binding site.)

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Var` for its implementation
and documentation.

Functions
=========

Functions in Relay act similarly to procedures or functions in
other programming languages and serve to generalize the concept
of a named subgraph.

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Function` for the definition and documentation of function nodes.

Global Functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> 

Reviewer 3: Let us add a section about Module, or rename Global Function into Module. 

as per @reminisce 's suggestion, mention that the Module mechanism is naturally used to represent subgraphs in traditional deep learning framework's terminology. Give an example of a function calling into sub functions

Author: Right, will do.

Expressions in Relay
====================

The Relay IR is a pure, expression-oriented language. The below sections
describe the different expressions in Relay and give details of their semantics.

Dataflow and Control Fragments
==============================

For the purposes of comparing Relay to traditional computational graph-based IRs, it
can be useful to consider Relay exrpessions in terms of dataflow and control fragments.
Each portion of a Relay program containing expressions that only affect the dataflow can
be viewed as a traditional comptuation graph when writing and expressing transformations.

The dataflow fragment covers the set of Relay expressions that do not involve
control flow. That is, any portion of a program containing only the following
constructs corresponds to a pure computation graph:
- `Variables`_
- Tuple `Construction`_ and `Projection`_
- `Let Bindings`_
- `Graph Bindings`_
- Calls to `Operators`_

Control flow expressions allow the graph topology to change
based on the value of previously executed expressions. The control
fragment in Relay includes the following constructs:
- `If-Then-Else`_ Expressions
- Recursive Calls in Functions

> Because a function can be viewed as a subgraph from the point of view of computational graphs,

Author: Your explanation seems more precise.

a call effectively substitutes in the subgraph. Thus, if a function's body is entirely within
the dataflow fragment, a call to that function is in the dataflow fragment; conversely, if the
function's body contains control flow, a call to that function is not part of the dataflow fragment.

Variables
=========

Inspired by LLVM, Relay explicitly distinguishes between local and
global variables both in the AST and in the text format. In the text format,
global and local variables are distinguished by prefixes, or sigils.
Global variables are prefixed with :code:`@` and local variables with :code:`%`.

This explicit distinction makes certain optimizations easier to implement.
For example, inlining a global definition requires no analysis: simply
substituting the definition suffices.

Global Variable
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Global identifiers are prefixed by the :code:`@` sigil, such as ":code:`@global`".

> A global identifier always references a globally visible definition contained in the environment.

Author: Good idea

For example, in the below example, the final result will be
a tensor of zero values because the closure for :code:`%f` stores the value of
:code:`%x` at the pointer where :code:`%f` was defined.

.. code-block:: python

    let %g = fn () {
      let %x = Constant(0, (10, 10), float32);
      // x is a free variable in the below function
      fn (%y) { multiply(%y, %x) }
    };
    // the %x in %g's body is not in scope anymore
    // %f is a closure where %x maps to Constant(0, (10, 10), float32)
    let %f = %g();
    let %x = Constant(1, (10, 10), float32);
    %f(%x) // evaluates to `Constant(0, (10, 10), float32)

Polymorphism and Type Relations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. *Note: type parameter syntax is not yet supported in the text format.*

A function may also be given a set of type parameters, which can be
substituted for specific types at call sites. Functions with
type parameters are *type polymorphic*; their return type or the types
of arguments they will accept can vary based on the type arguments
given at call sites.

For example, one can define a polymorphic identity function for
any Relay type as follows:

.. code-block:: python

>     fn<t: Type>(%x : t) -> t {

Author: I'm not sure that would serve a purpose, but we should have a wider discussion of that.

        %x
    }

> The below definition is also polymorphic, but restricts its

Author: Added

As in the case of :code:`Broadcast`, relations are used to express complicated
constraints on types (especially tensor shapes).
All function relations must hold at all call sites;
type checking is thus treated as a constraint-solving problem.
For more detail on type relations and their implementations,
please see the documentation on `Relay's Type System`_.

Operators
=========

An operator is a primitive operation, such as :code:`add` or :code:`conv2d`, not defined in the Relay
language. Operators are declared in the global operator
registry in C++. Many common operators are backed by TVM's
Tensor Operator Inventory (`TOPI <https://github.com/dmlc/tvm/tree/master/topi>`__).

To register an operator a user must provide an implementation
of the operator, its type, and any other desired metadata.
The operator registry is a column-based store where
operators are keys, so any metadata (which might be referenced
by optimization passes) may be registered as a new column.

From the perspective of Relay's type system, an operator is a function,
so operators may be called like any other function and have function
types. In particular, operator types are registered using a single

> type relation (see `Polymorphism and Type Relations`_), typically a relation

Reviewer 2: it might be useful to reference the type system discussion of type relations here, because it's talking about implementing type relations

Author: Perhaps I will, but I think the linked subsection does reference that.

Operators are rendered without a sigil (e.g :code:`conv2d`, :code:`flatten`)
when pretty-printing Relay programs.
Operators are explicitly contained in the program and are uniquely
identifiable by pointer.

Note that common arithmetic operators such as :code:`add` and :code:`multiply`
may be written using the corresponding arithmetic operators in the text format
(e.g., :code:`+` or :code:`*`) as syntactic sugar.

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.op.Op` for the definition and documentation
of operator nodes, demonstrating the infrastructure for registering
operator metadata. The other files in :py:class:`~tvm.relay.op` give
handles for generating a call to various pre-registered operators.
The `tutorial on adding operators to Relay`__ shows how to add further
operators into the language.

__ `Adding an Operator to Relay`_

Call
====

Expressions with function types in Relay are "callable,"
meaning that they can be invoked via a function call. These consist of
any expression that evaluates to a closure (i.e., function expressions
or global functions) and Relay operators.

The syntax of calls follows that used in C-like languages, demonstrated in the
example below:

.. code-block:: python

>    let c = 1;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   let %c = 1;
```

>    let f = fn(%x : Tensor[(), float32], %y : Tensor[(), float32]) { %x + %y + %c };

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   let %f = fn(%x : Tensor[(), float32], %y : Tensor[(), float32]) { %x + %y + %c };
```

   %f(10, 11)

When a closure is called (see `Closures`_),
the closure's body is evaluated in the stored environment 
(i.e., using the stored values for free variables) with
local variable bindings added for each argument; the final value
obtained by evaluating the body is the call's return value.
Thus, in the above example, the call evaluates to 22.
In the case of operators, the implementation is opaque to Relay,
so the result is left up to the registered TVM implementation.

.. *Note: type parameters are not yet supported in the text format.* 

A type-polymorphic function can also include type arguments at a call
site. The type arguments are substituted for type parameters when
type checking. If a function is type-polymorphic and type arguments are not
given, type inference will attempt to infer type arguments if possible.
The following code gives examples of explicit and inferred type arguments:

.. code-block:: python

    // %f : fn<a : Type, b : Type, c : Type>(a, b) -> c

>     let %x1 = f<Tensor[(), bool], Tensor[(), bool], Tensor[(), bool)]>(True, False);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    let %x1 = %f<Tensor[(), bool], Tensor[(), bool], Tensor[(), bool)]>(True, False);
```

    // %x1 is of type Tensor[(), bool]

>     let %x2 : () = f(%x1, %x1)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    let %x2 : () = %f(%x1, %x1)
```

    // the type arguments in the second call are inferred to be <Tensor[(), bool], Tensor[(), bool], ()>

Note that all type relations in the function type must hold at each
call site. Specifically, this means that the relation will be checked
against the specific types of the arguments at a given call site. This 
is also a form of polymorphism, since there may be multiple valid
assignments of argument types and a return type so long as the relation
is satisfied.

For example, if we have a function :code:`%f` that takes tensor arguments
and has the :code:`Broadcast` relation, then there are many different
shapes that the arguments in the below call could have that would satisfy
the type annotation:

.. code-block:: python

>    let %x : Tensor[(100, 100, 100), float32] = %f(%a, %b, %c);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   let %x : Tensor[(100, 100, 100), float32] = %f(%a, %b);
```
broadcast functions can only accept two arguments

Module and Global Functions
===========================

Relay keeps a global data structure known as a "module" (often called an "environment" in other
functional programming languages) to keep track of the definitions of global functions.
In particular, the module keeps a globally accessible mapping of global variables to the
function expressions they denote. The utility of the module is that it allows global functions
to recursively refer to themselves or any other global function (e.g., as in mutual recursion).

Note Relay's module is analogous to data structures for keeping track of subgraphs in computation
graph-based IRs.

Global functions in Relay behave identically to the function expressions defined in `Functions`_,
but have syntactic sugar in the text format to enter their definitions into the module. Namely,
a global function definition includes a global identifier and is allowed to recursively refer to
that identifier in the body, as in the following example:

.. code-block:: python

   def @ackermann(%m : Tensor[(), int32], %n : Tensor[(), int32]) -> Tensor[(), int32] {
       if (%m == 0) {
           %n + 1

>        } else if (%m > 0 && n == 0) {

Reviewer 2: `else if` (and `&&`?) is not supported right now, but let's keep it and add an issue

Author: I think they should be supported if not presently, yeah

>        } else if (%m > 0 && n == 0) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       } else if (%m > 0 && %n == 0) {
```

           @ackermann(%m - 1, @ackermann(%m, %n - 1))
       }
   }

This definition would result in a module entry mapping the identifier :code:`@ackermann` to a function expression
with the parameters, return type, and body above. Any reference to the identifier :code:`@ackermann` elsewhere in the
code could then look up the identifier in the module and replace the function definition as needed.

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.Module` for the definition and documentation of a module.

Constant
========

This node represents a constant tensor value
(see :py:mod:`~tvm.relay.Value` for more details).
A constant is represented as a :py:class:`~tvm.NDArray`,
allowing Relay to utilize TVM operators for constant evaluation.

This node can also represent scalar constants, since
scalars are tensors with a shape of :code:`()`. In the text format, numerical
and boolean literals are thus syntactic sugar for constants encoding a
tensor type with a rank-zero shape.

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Constant` for its definition and documentation.

Tuples
======

Construction
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The tuple node builds a finite (that is, of statically known size) sequence of heterogeneous data. 

> These tuples match Python's closely. Their fixed length allows for efficient projection of their

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These tuples match Python's closely, and their fixed length allows for efficient projection of their
```

members.

.. code-block:: python

> fn (%a : Tensor[(10, 10), float32], %b : float32, %c : Tensor[(100, 100), float32]) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   fn(%a : Tensor[(10, 10), float32], %b : float32, %c : Tensor[(100, 100), float32]) {
```

>     let %tup = (%a, %b);     // type: (Tensor[(10, 10), float32], float32)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       let %tup = (%a, %b);     // type: (Tensor[(10, 10), float32], float32)
```

>     ((%tup.0 + %tup.1), %c)  // type: (Tensor[(10, 10), float32], Tensor[(100, 100), float32])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       ((%tup.0 + %tup.1), %c)  // type: (Tensor[(10, 10), float32], Tensor[(100, 100), float32])
```

> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   }
```

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Tuple` for its definition and documentation.

Projection
~~~~~~~~~~

A tuple must be indexed by an integer constant in order to extract a
particular member of the tuple. Projections are 0-indexed.

For example, the below projection evaluates to :code:`%b`:

.. code-block:: python

   (%a, %b, %c).1

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.TupleGetItem` for its definition and documentation.

Let Bindings
============

A :code:`let` binding is an immutable local variable binding,
allowing the user to bind an expression to a name.

A :code:`let` binding contains a local variable,
an optional type annotation, a value, and a body expression
that may reference the bound identifier. If a type annotation
on the bound variable is omitted, Relay attempts to infer the
most general type permitted for the variable.

> The bound variable in a :code:let expression is only in scope 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The bound variable in a :code:`let` expression is only in scope 
```

in its body, except when the variable defines a function expression.

> When a :code:let expression creates a function, the variable is also

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a :code:`let` expression creates a function, the variable is also
```

in scope in its value to allow for recursively defined functions 
(see the previous subsection).

The value of a :code:`let` binding is the value of the final expression
after evaluating the bindings it depends on. For example, in the
following example the entire expression evaluates to a tensor

> of shape (10, 10) where all elements are 2:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of shape :code:`(10, 10)` where all elements are 2:
```

.. code-block:: python

   let %x : Tensor[(10, 10), float32] = Constant(1, (10, 10), float32);
   %x + %x

A sequence of :code:`let` bindings can be considered as a dataflow graph,

> where the bindings are a series of sub-graphs connected

Reviewer 2: this could use a picture, but maybe we should punt on that

Author: Pictures may be useful for publications, but we could always add them later.

In Relay's text format, a graph binding can be written as below (note the lack of a
:code:`let` keyword and a semicolon):

.. code-block:: python

   %1 = %a + %b
   %2 = %1 + %1
   %2 * %2

Unlike a let binding, a graph binding is not represented as an AST node in Relay, but rather as a meta-variable referencing its AST node value.
For example, a program like the above could be constructed in Relay's
Python front-end by setting *Python variables* equal to the corresponding Relay AST node and
using the variables repeatedly, as below (a C++ program using the corresponding API bindings
could accomplish the same thing):

.. code-block:: python

   sum1 = relay.add(a, b)
   sum2 = relay.add(sum1, sum1)
   relay.multiply(sum2, sum2)

For development purposes and to enable certain optimizations, Relay includes passes to
convert between dataflow graphs defined using graph bindings and programs with :code:`let`
bindings in A-normal form, employed by many compiler optimizations from the functional
programming community (see `"A-Normalization: Why and How" by
Matt Might<http://matt.might.net/articles/a-normalization/>`__ for an introduction

> to the A-normal form).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to A-normal form).
```

If-Then-Else
============

Relay has a simple if-then-else expression that allows programs to branch
on a single value of type :code:`bool`, i.e., a zero-rank
tensor of booleans (:code:`Tensor[(), bool]`).

.. code-block:: python

>     if (equal(%t, %u)) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    if (%t == %u) {
```

        %t
    } else {
        %u
    }

Since if-then-else branches are expressions, they may appear inline
wherever any other expression may be expected, like invocations of
the ternary operator in C-like languages. The if-then-else expression
evaluates to the value of the "then" branch if the condition value

> evaluates to `True` and evaluates to the value of the "else" branch otherwise.

Reviewer 2: I think there is some disagreement over whether the semantics are truthy-falsy or true-false, at least from some of the code I've read. @jroesch @MarisaKirisame.

Author: Yes, we should make a normative decision on that.

Reviewer 2: I believe it is true-false. We should rephrase this sentence so False is the only value that triggers execution of the else branch.

Author: Okay, will do

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.If` for its definition and documentation.

TempExprs
=========

Program transformations (passes) in Relay may require inserting temporary 
state into the program AST to guide further transformations. The
:code:`TempExpr` node is provided as a utility to developers for this purpose;
nodes inheriting from :code:`TempExpr` cannot appear directly in user-provided

> code but may be inserted in a pass.  Any :code:`TempExpr`s created in a pass

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
code but may be inserted in a pass. Any :code:`TempExpr`s created in a pass
```

See :py:class:`~tvm.relay.expr.Let` for its definition and documentation.

Graph Bindings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A :code:`let` binding creates a named variable that is bound to the given value
and scoped to the subsequent expression. By contrast, a graph binding allows for
explicitly constructing dataflow graphs in a Relay program by binding an expression
(graph node) directly to a temporary variable, which is not scoped. This has the
semantics of substituting the expression wherever the variable appears, even though
the graph node will only be evaluated once by the compiled program.

These bindings allow for a style of programming that corresponds to that already
employed by NNVM and other dataflow graph-based input formats. The fact that the variables
are not scoped offers some flexibility in evaluation order compared to :code:`let`
bindings, though this can also introduce some ambiguity in programs (`this developer

> page<https://docs.tvm.ai/dev/relay_intro.html>`__ includes more detailed discussion of

Reviewer 3: we can use reStructuredText label and ref to directly refer to docs in the same project. See
http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html#hyperlink-targets internal targets

Author: Thanks, I'll change it
